 ## Abstract
 
Currently, the development of automotive technology is growing rapidly, this emerges based on ideas and needs of people who are also growing rapidly. Based on this notion, the application of technology in the automotive milieu continues to develop until the creation of sophisticated technology is equal to changing times. The development of a sensor system with Internet of Things (IoTs) connectivity provides the development of better driving technology, which supports the growth of the automotive market . The application of this technology provides security and convenience for drivers and their vehicles

The rearview camera in the car helps us to see the area behind the car when we are backing up.it often provides more visibility behind the car than the view we get by turning our head.but often some cars does not have rearview camera and even some of the rearview cameras stops working due to the accidents, enviromental and different landscape of the india. The rearview cameras may not be affordable for everyone to replace it quite often. In this case the distance finder helps the driver to know the distance between the car and the object. The distance finder calcultes the distance using the ultrasonic sensor and displays it on the lcd which is placed near the driver. to avoid more accidents two or three ultrasonic sensors can be used.
 
 
In this project, an integrated system using an ultrasonic sensor HC-SR04 based on AT Mega328P microcontroller was done. It is used to control the processing of data and to display the output. The microcontroller is connected to ultrasonic sensor HC-SR04 which contains the piezoelectric with a particular frequency. This will generate ultrasonic waves and the waves will be reflected by the object whose distance to be measured. The time difference between the transmitted wave and reflected wave will be measured by the sensors. The accurate distance between the object and the sensors will be detected. Simulation output displayed in SIMULIDE.
 

